# TJFV5-SOCS0100-Assignment-2

# Overview

This project uses the World Bank Data360 API to access data generated by the World Bank, thereafter using RShiny to create an interactive visualisation of the wrangled data.

## Contents

After cloning the repository `~/Downloads/TJFV5-SOCS0100-Assignment-2` , you will find the following files of interest:

#### *1. Quarto Report `"TJFV5-Report-2.qmd"`*

This report explains the step-by-step-process of data collection and data wrangling utilising the World Bank Data360 API, and analyses the findings within the wrangled data. It further evaluates the use of Microsoft Copilot, a Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) software, in supporting the project.

#### *2. Singstat indicators `"singstat-raw.csv"`*

This is the raw .csv file imported from Singapore's Department of Statistics (Singstat), and provides us with more data on Singapore's literacy rates over the years.

#### *2. Data Collection and Wrangling RScript `"data-collection-and-wrangling.R"`*

This RScript contains the code used for the data collection and wrangling processes.

#### *3. Wrangled dataset* `"education-expenditure-and-gender-gap.csv"`

The wrangled data from `"data-collection-and-wrangling.R"` is stored within this .csv file, for use in the app.R file.

#### *4. RShiny Interactive Dashboard `"app.R"`*

This RScript utilises the RShiny package to develop an interactive dashboard for the user to interact with the wrangled data. Run this code to generate the interactive dashboard and interact with the data outputs from the project.

## Set up

#### *Preparing packages*

First and foremost, install the pacman package in RStudio. This will enable you to swiftly install the packages listed below to reproduce this project.

```{r}
#Data collection and data wrangling process
if (!require("pacman")) {
  install.packages("pacman")
}
library(pacman)
pacman::p_load(
  kableExtra,
  flextable,
  skimr,
  ggplot2,
  dplyr,
  purrr,
  tidyverse,
  gridExtra,
  httr,
  jsonlite,
  janitor
)

#RShiny Dashboard

```

## Imported data

#### *World Bank Data360 API*

The World Bank Data360 API is a public access API, hence no authentication token and key is required. Within the World Bank Data360, there are thousands of indicators available. The API is available at the following url: "<https://data360api.worldbank.org/data360/data>".

Its terms of use are available at the following url: "<https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/>".

#### *Singstat indicators*

Singstat is the Singapore government's official Department of Statistics, and provides several in-depth population indicators for public use.

Indicators on literacy rates is publicly available at the following url: "<https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M850001>".

Terms of use are available at the following url: "<https://www.singstat.gov.sg/terms-of-use>".

## Acknowledgements

World Bank Data360 for the access and use of their API, and Singstat for the access and use of their datasets.
